All right, let's go ahead and build out our two events.
So again, we care about order created and order canceled.
To get started inside of my events directory in the common module, I'm going to find that subjects
to file inside subjects.
We've got that enum that is listing out all the different possible subject names or essentially event
names.
So we're going to add in an event name or a subject of order created and order cancelled.
Well put inside of your order.
Read it is order colon created.
And order canceled.
His order.
Colon canceled.
Okay.
Good start.
After that, I'm going to create two files inside this event's directory.
One will be order created events.
I accidentally put a s on the very end.
They're going to make sure I just fix that.
We will also create order cancelled events.
Now, just so you know, the word cancelled.
Very easy to misspell.
So we've now written out the word canceled three times right here, right here and inside of that file
that we just created as well.
I beg you, please triple check the spelling of the word canceled in all three locations.
If you misspell canceled anywhere, it's going to cause problems down the line.
Without a doubt.
All right.
So now we'll go back over to order created events.
We're going to start to put together this event definition at the very top.
We will import these subjects in them from subjects will then export a new interface.
Called Order created event.
Then inside of here, we're going to list out the subject.
Which is subject Scott order created and then some data that is going to describe the order that was
just made.
And we could certainly throw all the data from the order inside of here.
But let's go back and take a look at that PDF that describes the purpose of this event so that we can
really understand what information we should include inside.
All right.
So remember, what he created is going to go off two tickets, payments and expiration.
Each of these different services need to know some very particular information about the order that
was just made.
So the ticket service, for example, needs to know the ID of the ticket that was just reserved so that
the ticket service can lock down that ticket and prevent any further editing.
The payment service, on the other hand, needs to know the user ID of whoever just created this order
so that it can understand who it should expect to receive a payment from.
It also needs to know the cost or the price of the ticket.
And then finally, the expiration service needs to know the expires at time of the order.
So in total, we really care about the ticket ID.
We care about the user ID and the ticket price.
And then we care about the expires that time.
And technically this thing also cares about the order ID as well.
So that when that 15 minutes expires or passes the expiration can service can emit an event and say,
hey, the order with ID so-and-so should now be marked as expired.
The only thing that all these services don't really care about when it comes to the order is the status
of the order.
None of those different services care about the status whatsoever.
And in fact, even the name of this event implies that its status should be order or the created status.
Now, having said that, even though none of our services really care about this status, I'm still
going to include it anyways with the event because who knows, maybe at some point in time in the future,
some other service is going to come online and it's going to care about the default status of this order
or something like that.
Okay.
So anyways, for data right here, we're going to say that we're going to include the ID as a string,
the status, which is going to be one of the order status enum options.
So I will have to import our order status enum.
At the top.
As a quick reminder, we've got that typed directory inside.
There's the order status enum and that describes all the different valve statuses that an order can
have.
Then the user ID.
So this is the person who created the order.
We care about expires.
At and remember saved on the order or the order model it is a date that is how we are storing expires
that inside of our database it is a date object but we are describing something right here that's going
to be converted into JSON.
So rather than saying that this order created event is going to have an expires at property, that is
going to be a date object.
Instead, I'm going to say that it is a string because we're definitely going to want to convert that
date object into JSON or into a string of manually so we can control how the time zone on it gets set.
Long story short, right now, we're going to say that expires.
That is going to be a string.
And when we actually go and make use of this, you'll see why.
Then finally, we're going to also include information about the ticket on here as well.
I'm going to embed it inside of an object.
So I'll say that this thing is going to have an ID that is a string and a price.
That is a number.
And that should be it for now.
All right, let's now go over and take care of order.
Canceled.
So here's order cancelled event at the very top.
I will get my status.
Is not status, but subjects.
From Subject's File.
Well then export in interface of order canceled event.
We'll say that this thing is going to have a subject of subject order cancelled.
And then in this case, what data do we care about?
Well, let's go take a look once again at that diagram and see what actually cares about order cancelled.
So the order cancelled.
We want that to go over to the ticket service.
And that means that the ticket service is going to need to be told exactly what ticket ID we just need
or we need to actually on reserve.
In addition, this thing is going to go over to the payment service and tell it that it should stop
to or should not expect to receive any payment or anything like that.
The payment service for this particular event doesn't really need to know about the price or the cost
of the ticket.
It really just needs to be told, hey, do not expect any payments for order ID so-and-so.
So in total, I think that the only data that we need to include here is the ID of the order itself
and the ID of the ticket that we are trying to unreserved with the ticket service.
So we could say ticket ticket ID is going to be a string.
Now once again, we could definitely throw in a ton more information describing the order.
Without a doubt we can include the user ID, we can include the ticket price when this thing expires
and so on.
But we don't really have any need to share that information with any other service inside of our app
right now.
But this is kind of the point at which you need to make a decision on your own for your own personal
app.
When you create an event, do you want to, just by default, assume you're going to share the maximum
amount of information possible?
Or do you just want to share the minimum?
In this case, we are sharing the minimum amount of information to describe the order that was just
canceled because we know exactly what services are going to try to use this event.
Now, the bad side about this approach or the downside is that we are not really future proofing ourselves.
There might be some point in time in the future where maybe the payment service does need to know the
price of the ticket that was embedded with this order.
If that happens, if it turns out that the payment service does need to know that price well, we would
have to come back to this order created event interface.
Just add on that tiny little price property.
And then republish this entire library.
So it's really up to you.
Do you want to futureproof your stuff and include as much info as possible, or do you want to trim
every event down to just the bare minimum?
So again, we're going to go with bare minimum in this case.
Yeah.
So let's save this.
Now, the last thing we're going to do, go back to our index file.
Instead of our CRC directory, we're going to make sure that we export both the events that we just
created.
So here's index TS at the bottom, we'll add on export star from events.
And then order canceled event.
Then another one for events.
Order.
Read it even.
I'll then save this.
And then finally we're going to update this module or republish the module and then update the module
inside of our order service.
So back at our terminal.
I will change into my common module.
I'll do an MPM run pub to republish this.
It looks like I'm on version 16 right now.
You are probably on a way less version at this point.
As I said, I sometimes rerecord videos.
I can't really use version numbers, and that's why I'm a little bit higher than you are most likely.
So now that I've published this thing as version 16, I'm going to go back over to my orders service.
And inside of orders, we'll do an NPM update.
And then whatever your common module name is, so mine is SG tickets common.
And again, yours is probably something very different.
And after that runs, I'm just going to make sure that I see the one sixth right there.
Yep.
Looks good.
All right.
So that's it.
Let's take a quick pause right here.
When we come back, the next video, we're going to make sure that we eventually emit these events or
publish them from within our code whenever someone cancels an order or creates an order.